doc: add pull request docs (#151)
illinois-ceesd/mirgecom: doc/development.rst

in use is determined by the file
`requirements.txt in mirgecom <https://github.com/illinois-ceesd/mirgecom/blob/master/requirements.txt>`__.

Working with Pull Requests
--------------------------

We are using GitHub's pull requests (PRs) feature to integrate changes into

> mirgecom. Pull requests are based on git branches that are merged into another

Reviewer: ```suggestion
mirgecom and its supporting packages. Pull requests are based on git branches that are merged into another
```

branch (usually the master branch). Note that pull requests are a GitHub
feature and live outside the main git functionality; the `git` program itself

> has no knowledge of them.

Reviewer: Link to https://try.github.io/

> has no knowledge of them.

Reviewer: Mention that `conda install git` can be used to install git. (or that emirge automatically installs it?)

      $ pydocstyle
      $ pytest

3. Commit your changes to the new branch

   .. code:: bash

      $ git commit

4. Push your changes

   .. code:: bash

      $ git push -u
      # alternatively:
      $ git push -u origin featureX

   If you do not have write privileges to this repository, you can push
   the change to your fork instead:

   .. code:: bash

      $ git push -u <forked_repo> featureX

5. Create pull request:

   https://github.com/illinois-ceesd/mirgecom/pulls

   The `base` branch should be the `master` branch of the repo you want to
   merge into in most cases. The `compare` branch is the branch with your
   changes.

   When creating the pull request, select at least one reviewer (someone that
   has knowledge about the code you are modifying), add yourself as the
   assignee, and choose appropriate labels (if any). Note that this can
   usually not be done for a PR from a forked repository.

6. After the pull request has been merged, you can delete the branch
   (locally and remotely):

   .. code:: bash

      $ git branch -d featureX    # delete branch locally
      $ git push –delete featureX # delete it remotely; or delete in web interface

> Updating a pull request

Reviewer: Add a blurb about dependent pull requests. Here's a start:

> It is expected that you will need to propose changes to supporting packages (e.g. grudge, meshmode, loopy, pyopencl), depending on ...

Author: Done.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Commit to the same local branch and push that branch:

.. code:: bash

   $ git commit
   $ git push

When changing the history of a branch (e.g., by rebasing the branch, or
by amending a commit that is already pushed), you might need to
force-push it back to the repository (i.e, ``git push --force``). Please
use this sparingly.

Reviewing/CI
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Each pull requests for mirgecom needs one manual approval by a reviewer and
needs to pass the Continuous Integration (CI) tests before merging. We use
GitHub actions as the CI provider to test each pull request. The CI tests are

> triggered automatically when a pull request is created or updated.

Reviewer: Describe how to navigate the CI output (what is Flake8?), what is supposed to happen if a test fails (they fix it), how to mark PRs as draft, and how to request reviews. (Example of a PR that could have used this: https://github.com/inducer/pyrometheus/pull/2)

Author: Done.

Squash and merge
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Squash all commits into one commit and merge it to the main branch. This is
the preferred option, especially for small changes, as it keeps the history
shorter and cleaner, makes git bisection easier, and makes it easier to revert
a pull request.

Rebase and merge
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Rebase all commits to top of the main branch and merge all commits. This
is the preferred option for larger changes, for example, by having
separate commits for the implementation of a feature and its
documentation

Other possibilities (such as squashing only some commits and then
merging multiple commits into ``master``) are not directly supported by
GitHub’s Web UI, but can be done manually on the command line (these
might need to be force pushed to a branch).

Create a merge commit
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This options just merges all commits into the master branch. This is the simplest
way to merge a pull request, but can lead to issues with bisection and reverting PRs
later.

Tools
^^^^^

Apart from the `git` tool, there are other tools that help to simplify various
aspects of working with GitHub:

Command line:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  https://hub.github.com/

> -  https://github.com/cli/cli

Reviewer: Make these proper links.

GUI
~~~

-  Fork
-  GitHub Desktop

> -  Sublime Merge

Reviewer: Make these proper links

> -  Sublime Merge

Reviewer: Add Magit. (I'm saying that as a Vim person!)

Working with Pull Requests
--------------------------

We are using GitHub's pull requests (PRs) feature to integrate changes into
mirgecom and its supporting packages. Pull requests are based on git branches
that are merged into another branch (usually the master branch). Note that
pull requests are a GitHub feature and live outside the main git
functionality; the ``git`` program itself has no knowledge of them.

.. note::

   A good overview of basic git functionality and the ``git`` program can be found
   on this `GitHub page <https://try.github.io/>`__.

.. note::

   On most systems, the ``git`` program will already be installed. You can
   install it yourself by running ``conda install git``.

Forking the repository
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In most cases, it will be necessary to fork the repository (that is, create a
copy of the repository in your own GitHub account), since creating a pull
request requires creating a branch in the repo, which requires write access.
You can fork a repository directly on the GitHub website. You can add the URL of
the fork to your local cloned copy of the repository with the following command:

.. code:: bash

>    $ git remote add my_fork git@github.com:MYUSERNAME/<repo>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   $ git remote add my_fork git@github.com:MYUSERNAME/REPONAME
```
(Only use one style for "meta" variables)

in use is determined by the file
`requirements.txt in mirgecom <https://github.com/illinois-ceesd/mirgecom/blob/master/requirements.txt>`__.

Working with Pull Requests
--------------------------

We are using GitHub's pull requests (PRs) feature to integrate changes into
mirgecom and its supporting packages. Pull requests are based on git branches
that are merged into another branch (usually the master branch). Note that
pull requests are a GitHub feature and live outside the main git
functionality; the ``git`` program itself has no knowledge of them.

.. note::

   A good overview of basic git functionality and the ``git`` program can be found
   on this `GitHub page <https://try.github.io/>`__.

.. note::

   On most systems, the ``git`` program will already be installed. You can
   install it yourself by running ``conda install git``.

Forking the repository
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In most cases, it will be necessary to fork the repository (that is, create a
copy of the repository in your own GitHub account), since creating a pull
request requires creating a branch in the repo, which requires write access.

> You can fork a repository directly on the GitHub website.

Reviewer: This should cover adding a remote for the forked repo. (Used under the name `my_fork` below.)

Author: Good idea, done.

Creating a new pull request
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1. Create a new branch for your pull request:

   .. code:: bash

      $ cd mirgecom           # or loopy, meshmode, ...

>       $ git branch featureX   # Create new branch for your feature
>       $ git checkout featureX # Activate the branch

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      $ git switch -c featureX   # Create new branch for your feature and switch to it
```

      # Edit files

2. Check that your changes pass tests:

   .. code:: bash

>       # Install these with 'pip install wheel flake8 pep8-naming flake8-quotes pytest pylint'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      # Install these with 'pip install wheel flake8 pep8-naming flake8-quotes pytest pylint' if needed
      # (emirge will have installed them for you automatically)
```

>       $ flake8
>       $ pydocstyle
>       $ pytest

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      $ flake8 mirgecom test
      $ pydocstyle mirgecom test
      $ (cd test && python -m pytest)
```

3. Commit your changes to the new branch:

   .. code:: bash

>       $ git commit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      $ git add file1.py file2.py
      $ git commit
```

4. Push your changes:

> 
>    .. code:: bash
> 
>       $ git push -u
>       # alternatively:
>       $ git push -u origin featureX
> 
>    If you do not have write privileges to this repository, you can push
>    the change to your fork instead:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
(The folks who are allowed to push directly already know how to do it.)

   .. code:: bash

>       $ git push -u <forked_repo> featureX

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      $ git push -u my_fork featureX
```

5. Create pull request:

   https://github.com/illinois-ceesd/mirgecom/pulls

   The `base` branch should be the `master` branch of the repo you want to
   merge into in most cases. The `compare` branch is the branch with your
   changes.

> 
>    When creating the pull request, select at least one reviewer (someone that
>    has knowledge about the code you are modifying), add yourself as the
>    assignee, and choose appropriate labels (if any). Note that this can
>    usually not be done for a PR from a forked repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Updating a pull request
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Commit to the same local branch and push that branch:

.. code:: bash

   $ git commit
   $ git push

When changing the history of a branch (e.g., by rebasing the branch, or
by amending a commit that is already pushed), you might need to
force-push it back to the repository (i.e, ``git push --force``). Please
use this sparingly.

Dependent pull requests
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

It is likely that you will need to propose changes to supporting packages
(e.g. grudge, meshmode, loopy, pyopencl) in order to implement a feature in
mirgecom, thus creating a mirgecom PR that depends on a PR in the other package.
In a situation where both PRs are under review at the same time, mirgecom has a way
to express this dependency to make it easier to review and test both PRs jointly.

You can express this dependency by modifying the branch of a dependent package
inside mirgecom's ``requirements.txt`` file in the main mirgecom folder. In
the following example, assume that we want to create a feature in mirgecom
that depends on the ``my_branch`` branch in meshmode::

   git+https://github.com/inducer/meshmode.git#egg=meshmode
   # change to:

>    git+https://github.com/inducer/meshmode.git@my_branch#egg=meshmode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   git+https://github.com/MYUSERNAME/meshmode.git@featureX#egg=meshmode
```
